Adding Content for Inclusion and Exclusion Rules (#859)
magento/merchdocs: src/marketing/recommendation-incl-excl.md

---
title: Inclusion and Exclusion Filters
tag: product-recommendations
ee_only: true
---

When you [create a product recommendation unit]({% link marketing/create-new-rec.md %}), you can define filters that control which products can be displayed in recommendations. These filters are based on a set of inclusion or exclusion conditions. Only products matching all inclusion conditions are eligible to appear in recommendations. Products matching any of the exclusion conditions are not recommended.

> Inclusion and exclusion conditions can be static or dynamic. A static condition uses existing product attributes to determine which products are eligible to appear in the unit. For example, you can specify that you only want products that are greater than $25 and in-stock to appear in the unit. A dynamic condition keys off shopper's current context, such as currently viewed category or product. For example, when creating a product recommendation to be deployed on product detail pages, you can create a condition to recommend only products that are within a relative price range of the currently viewed product . Static conditions are available on all page types. Dynamic conditions are available on a subset of page types. See [static versus dynamic conditions](#staticdyn) to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inclusion and exclusion conditions can be static or dynamic. A static condition uses existing product attributes to determine which products are eligible to appear in the unit. For example, you can specify that you want only products that are greater than $25 and in-stock to appear in the unit. A dynamic condition keys off of a shopper's current context, such as currently viewed category or product. For example, when creating a product recommendation to be deployed on product detail pages, you can create a condition to recommend only products that are within a relative price range of the currently viewed product . Static conditions are available on all page types. Dynamic conditions are available on a subset of page types. See [static versus dynamic conditions](#staticdyn) to learn more.
```

## Types of conditions

Magento provides the following inclusion and exclusion conditions you can use to control which products can be displayed in recommendations.

- **Category** - Filters based on a product's category. Magento uses direct category assignments and their subcategories. For example, enabling an exclusion filter for category `Gear` will exclude products assigned to `Gear` and all of its subcategories such as `Gear/Bags` or `Gear/Fitness Equipment`.
- **Price** - Filters based on a product's price. Magento uses a product's final price when performing the comparison. The final price includes any discounts or special pricing available to anonymous shoppers. Customer group pricing is currently [not supported]({% link marketing/product-recs-limitations.md %}).
- **Product** - Specifies which specific products are eligible or not eligible to be displayed in recommendations. You cannot select products that are disabled or not visible individually because those products can never appear in recommendations.

> - **Stock Status** - (Available as an exclusion only.) Excludes products that are out of stock or low in stock. Low stock status is determined based on the **Only X left Threshold** value in [Inventory configuration]({% link configuration/catalog/inventory.md %}). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Stock Status** - (Available as an exclusion only.) Excludes products that are out of stock or low in stock. Low stock status is determined based on the _Only X left Threshold_ value in [Inventory configuration]({% link configuration/catalog/inventory.md %}). 
```

> - **Type** - Filters based on product type, such as: **Simple**, **Configurable**, **Virtual**, **Downloadable**, or **Gift card**. **Bundled** and **Grouped** products are [not yet supported]({% link marketing/product-recs-limitations.md %}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Type** - Filters based on product type, such as: _Simple_, _Configurable_, _Virtual_, _Downloadable_, or _Gift card_.  _Bundled_ and _Grouped_ products are [not yet supported]({% link marketing/product-recs-limitations.md %}).
```

> - **Visibility** - Filters products based on visibility, such as: **Catalog**, **Search**, or both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Visibility** - Filters products based on visibility, such as: _Catalog_, _Search_, or both.
```

## Combining multiple filters

> If using both inclusion and exclusion conditions, Magento applies AND/OR logic operators as per the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using both inclusion and exclusion conditions, Magento applies AND/OR logic operators according to the following:
```

- ANDs for inclusions
- ORs for exclusions

> When you define both inclusion and exclusion filters, the inclusions get evaluated first to determine all possible products that are eligible to be recommended, then products matching any exclusion filters are removed from that list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you define both inclusion and exclusion filters, the inclusions are evaluated first to determine all possible products that are eligible to be recommended, then products matching any exclusion filters are removed from that list.
```

---

> title: Control Displayed Recommendations

Reviewer 2: can we call this "Inclusion and Exclusion Filters" ?

tag: product-recommendations
ee_only: true
---

> When you [create a product recommendation unit]({% link marketing/create-new-rec.md %}), you can apply rules that control which products are displayed in recommendations. These rules are based on a set of inclusion or exclusion conditions. Only products matching all inclusion conditions are eligible to be recommended. Products matching any of the exclusion conditions are not recommended.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you [create a product recommendation unit]({% link marketing/create-new-rec.md %}), you can define filters that control which products can be displayed in recommendations. These filters are based on a set of inclusion or exclusion conditions. Only products matching all inclusion conditions are eligible to appear in recommendations. Products matching any of the exclusion conditions are not recommended.
```

> Inclusion and exclusion conditions can be static or dynamic. A static condition uses existing product attributes to determine which products are eligible to appear in the unit. For example, you can specify that you only want products that are greater than $25 and are not on sale to appear in the unit. A dynamic condition uses a set of dynamic attributes to determine which products are eligible to appear in the unit. For example, most apparel has an attribute of `gender` with a value of `men` or `women`. If the shopper is browsing men's jackets, a dynamic condition only recommends products where `gender = men`. Static conditions are available on all page types. Dynamic conditions are available on a subset of page types. See the [static versus dynamic conditions](#staticdyn) table to learn more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inclusion and exclusion conditions can be static or dynamic. A static condition uses existing product attributes to determine which products are eligible to appear in the unit. For example, you can specify that you only want products that are greater than $25 and in-stock to appear in the unit. A dynamic condition keys off shopper's current context, such as currently viewed category or product. For example, when creating a product recommendation to be deployed on product detail pages, you can create a condition to recommend only products that are within a relative price range of the currently viewed product . Static conditions are available on all page types. Dynamic conditions are available on a subset of page types. See the [static versus dynamic conditions](#staticdyn) table to learn more.
```

{:.bs-callout-info}

> Enabling inclusion and exclusion conditions requires that you have version 3.11.0 or later of the `magento/product-recommendations` module. See the [release notes](https://devdocs.magento.com/recommendations/release-notes.html) to learn more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inclusion and exclusion filters replace the legacy category exclusions in versions 4.0.0 and later of the `magento/product-recommendations` module. See the [release notes](https://devdocs.magento.com/recommendations/release-notes.html) to learn more.
```

## Types of conditions

> Magento provides the following inclusion and exclusion conditions you can use to control which products are displayed in recommendations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Magento provides the following inclusion and exclusion conditions you can use to control which products can be displayed in recommendations.
```

> - **Category** - Filters based on a product's category. Magento uses direct category assignments and their subcategories. For example, if the category of the product is `Gear`, enabling this rule includes or excludes products that have categories under `Gear`, such as `Gear/Bags` or `Gear/Fitness Equipment`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Category** - Filters based on a product's category. Magento uses direct category assignments and their subcategories. For example, enabling an exclusion filter for category `Gear` will exclude products assigned to  `Gear` and all of its subcategories such as `Gear/Bags` or `Gear/Fitness Equipment`.
```

> - **Price** - Filters based on a product's price. Magento uses a product's final price when performing the comparison. The final price includes any discounts or special pricing applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Price** - Filters based on a product's price. Magento uses a product's final price when performing the comparison. The final price includes any discounts or special pricing available to anonymous shoppers. Customer group pricing is currently not supported (LINK to limitations page)
```

> - **Product** - Specifies which products are eligible or not eligible to be displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Product** - Specifies which specific products are eligible or not eligible to be displayed in recommendations. You cannot select products that are disabled or not visible individually because those products can never appear in recommendations.
```

> - **In stock status/Low stock** - (Available as an exclusion only.) Filters based on the **Display Out-of-Stock Products** value configured in the Magento Admin to determine if a particular product should be displayed in a recommendation unit. If the **Display Out-of-Stock Products** option is set to `Yes`, products that are out-of-stock are eligible to be displayed in the recommendation unit. If **Display Out-of-Stock Products** option is set to `No`, out-of-stock products will not be displayed in recommendation units. You can configure the **Display Out-of-Stock Products** value in the [stock options]({% link configuration/catalog/inventory.md %}) section of the Catalog configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Stock Status** - (Available as an exclusion only.) Excludes products that are out of stock or low in stock. Low stock status is determined based on the "Only X Left Threshold" value in <Inventory configuration> (LINK). 
```

> - **Type** - Filters products based on type, such as: **Simple**, **Configurable**, **Virtual**, **Downloadable**, or **Gift card**. **Bundled** and **Grouped** products are not yet supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Type** - Filters based on product type, such as: **Simple**, **Configurable**, **Virtual**, **Downloadable**, or **Gift card**. **Bundled** and **Grouped** products are <not yet supported>(LINK).
```

- **Visibility** - Filters products based on visibility, such as: **Catalog**, **Search**, or both.

> ## Setting multiple conditions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Combining multiple filters
```

If using both inclusion and exclusion conditions, Magento applies AND/OR logic operators as per the following:

- ANDs for inclusions
- ORs for exclusions

> - ORs with multi-select within inclusions or within exclusions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: I feel like this carries more confusion than value

> For example, let's say you want to Provide basic examples of the more common multiple filter combinations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you define both inclusion and exclusion filters, the inclusions get evaluated first to determine all possible products that are eligible to be recommended, then products matching any exclusion filters are removed from that list. 
```

> what if user creates identical exclusion to an inclusion? ui/magento allows it...need to explain what happens.

Reviewer 2: maybe the above is sufficient

> ## Static versus dynamic conditions {#staticdyn}

Reviewer 2: not sure how I feel about this table. it's pretty confusing in its current form. maybe we take it out and just say dynamic ones are available for recs on every page type except home and Pagebuilder?
